The school, as well as Dynamique Private High School, held a memorial service today, Friday, 10 March, at the DLU Hall in Groblersdal to honour their seven angels in heaven. “It is with great sadness and a heavy heart that we, Dynamique Private Primary School, honour the seven lives lost during the unfortunate accident on Friday, 3 March.” Each teacher of the children who lost their lives, as well as the four survivors, wrote a letter to them: • For Bonolo Maoma (Grade RP) – Teacher Juanné van der Westhuizen: “Bonolo your bubbly and friendly personality will be missed. Quickly you found a special place in my heart, I cared and loved you as my own. I will miss your lovely smile in my class and warm hugs. Rest in peace my little Bonolotjie.” • For Mogau Tjabadi (Grade RD) – Teacher Marisa Matthee: “Today it would be wonderful to see you play or smile, but heaven lent you to this world, for just a little while, and in that short but precious time, you brought along much love and all that love is with you now in heaven sweet Mogau. Your leaving caused so many tears and such a lot of pain, but God needed one more of his angels, so he took you back. We will miss you Mogau. Rest in peace little one, till we meet again. Lots of love.” • For Onkabetse Nkadimeng (Grade 1S) – Teacher Annelie Masilela: “Onkabetse had a good personality. She was a loving, quiet, calm and kind child. She was a smart little girl, always smiling. She was an introvert in class and an extrovert outside. She had a good friendship with her fellow classmates, cooperative and attentive. I cherish every moment I had with Onkabetse in my class and around the school. She will forever be in my heart and missed.” • For Hlelo Phaladi (Grad 2S) – Teacher Mumsa Mahlangu: “Hlelo was a very busy, talkative child and he also had a beautiful smile. He was full of life and was quick in making friends. He liked to help in class. Hlelo, you will be dearly missed and remembered.” • For Mogau Mokgoo (Grade 2S) – Teacher Mumsa Mahlangu: “Mogau was a loving child and was very determined and very focused in her school work. Your smile and the love you have showed to me and your fellow learners will be treasured always.” • For Pearl Bamala (Grade 3P) – Teacher Charmaine Smuts: “Pearl was hard working, loving and caring. She loved hugs and was a very loving person. Very focused on her schoolwork. We as a class will cherish every moment we had with Pearl in class and around the school. She will forever be in our hearts and dearly missed.” • For Khomotso Mulanje (Grade 4P) – Teacher Portia Munyaka: “Your name says it, you were a source of joy, with hugs to your friends. We have loved the passion and determination in you. Nothing could stop you from achieving the best. You will remain in our hearts. Loving and missing you.” • For Thatego Mahlangu (Grade 1D) – Teacher Haseena Karim: “Sweet, little Thatego who is currently recovering in hospital. We send you loving thoughts and prayers for a speedy recovery so that you will be back with us very soon. We are also praying for the families of all who are dealing with this untimely tragedy.” • For Busisiwe Manhuru (Grade 2S) – Teacher Mumsa Mahlangu: “Busisiwe is a calm girl, very focused when coming to her schoolwork. She is out of the hospital and recovering well at home.” • For Kearabetswe Mohlala (Grade 2S) – Teacher Anne-Marie van den Heever: “Kearabetswe is a very spirited and bright learner. She is currently in hospital recovering and doing well.” • For Kabelo Maome (Grade 6D) – Teacher Precious Ncube: “Kabelo survived the accident and is currently receiving medical attention in hospital. We wish him a speedy and full recovery after the surgery he underwent on Monday. Our prayers are with him and his family in this difficult time.”