Advocate Khenisa was forced out of office by employees who revolted against his micromanagement style. Despite his voluntary resignation in April 2022, municipal employees have embarked on a semi-permanent go-slow due to his involvement with ongoing projects today – a year later. What they, however, do not want the public to know is that Advocate Khenisa introduced more major infrastructure projects in four years than his predecessors did in 17 years. Furthermore, the outsourcing of municipal services and leasing of fleets was contained in the municipality’s 40-year development strategy, adopted before Advocate Khenisa’s appointment. Advocate Khenisa also attracted more grants than any other Municipal Manager before him. Some of the vehicle contracts were negotiated when the current Municipal Manager, Mr Mandla Mnguni, acted in the position before Advocate Khenisa’s appointment. Advocate Khenisa merely built from a blueprint already laid. Yes, he was not the easiest boss, but bosses shouldn’t be chums. Municipal Manager Mnguni confirmed that he, indeed, was the architect of the council’s “smart city vision”. The workable smart city vision is, however, a double-edged sword, having mostly been implemented by Advocate Khenisa, resulting in the ongoing labour unrest.
Solid waste employees still refuse to utilise seven compactor trucks on lease for R574 000 every month. Millions are being forked out on stationary vehicles, while an aged fleet gives trouble.
The result is fewer rounds by waste removers who now clock record overtime. And what has the municipality done these last few months? “Negotiated and negotiating” with the troublemakers. No results! The solid waste department was, and remains, one of the main driving forces behind the spate of municipal strikes which started in September 2022, spilling over into the deadly shooting almost a year later in which municipal electrician Tshepo Maseko was killed. There seems to be a lack of stern leadership from the present powers that be. Advocate Khenisa did not tolerate this. It was his way or the highway, as they say. So what is the logical step? Make the municipality ungovernable? While solid waste is still harping on Advocate Khenisa’s executive track record, new villains had to be identified to keep their unending go-slow in motion. Mayor Mhlonishwa Masilela and the Executive Director for Community Services, who stood in as Municipal Manager after Advocate Khenisa’s departure, now bear the brunt of the municipal labour force. Both have been persona non grata at the municipality since the civic centre shootings in August last year. Union representatives even refused to attend the municipal lekgotla in White River a fortnight ago due to Mayor Masilela’s presence.
The municipality is as unstable as it was, if not more, during the last six months of Advocate Khenisa’s tenure.