MEDIA STATEMENT 04 March 2023 MEC RADZILANI CONCLUDES HER VISIT TO THE ACCIDENT SCENE THAT CLAIMED 16 LIVES Limpopo MEC for Transport and Community Safety, Florence Radzilani has concluded her visit to the accident scene near Groblersdal that claimed the lives of 16 people, including learners on Friday, 03 March 2023. MEC Radzilani started the visit, with an engagement with the Executive Mayor of the Greater Sekhukhune District Municipality, Cllr Maleke Mokganyetji, the Acting Mayor of the Elias Motsoaledi Local Municipality, Cllr Delly Matjomane, and various stakeholders which include the leadership of the South African Council of Churches and Taxi Organisations. Addressing the gathering, MEC Radzilani indicated that the confirmed figure of deceased people is 16, and not 22 as reported by other sources. The confusion was reportedly caused by conflicting reports between the accident scene and the hospital, where the victims were transported to. The MEC conducted this visit, to satisfy herself about the facts that have been reported as a cause of this horrific accident. MEC Radzilani’s initial assessment of the condition of the road, and the time of day, are that this fatality could have been caused by human factors. She has also expressed her shock and sadness, that “on Friday, the 3rd of March 2023, a total of 24 people perished on the Provincial roads, in 3 separate incidents”. These are the R71 Ga- Makanye accident that claimed 3 lives, the R579 Motetema accident with 16 fatalities, and the N1 South of Polokwane accident that reported 5 fatalities. The MEC and accompanying stakeholders proceeded from the R579 accident scene to visit two bereaved families in Motetema, to offer words of comfort. “We mourn with the bereaved families and wish a speedy recovery to those who sustained injuries. We equally continue to plead with motorists to exercise caution and restraint on our roads at all times”, said MEC Radzilani. Media enquiries:
Ms. Tidimalo Chuene
Departmental Spokesperson
082 831 0227 Mr. Vongani Chauke
MEC’s Media Liaison Officer
072 742 7575
060 806 1378 Issued by the Limpopo Department of Transport and Community Safety