Is willing to stop and repair an opponent’s flat tyre. Gives away his precious knowledge for free. Sweats every day in the Kruger Dam bushes to build a pedestrian path for the town. And is at his happiest when he can give. Now, two of his fellow club members from the Middelburg Cycling Club and the Middelburg Marathon Club have decided to start a trust fund, so Cobus can participate in the World Championships in mountain biking and off-road running, and in road cycling and running in Spain the first week of May 2023. The Cobus Fourie Trust Fund is administered by Theo Pistorius Attorneys, and an attempt will be made to collect the R40 000 that Cobus needs to participate in Spain in May. If there are funds left, they will be used in the future for young needy sports participants. His two fellow club members, who wish to remain anonymous, immediately added action to the word and contributed R1 000 each to the trust fund.
The Nedbank Trust Fund account number is 9023218951. • On Sunday, Cobus became the first South African to complete 40 Ironman competitions. In his own words: “If I can leave something behind for the younger generations, it is the lesson that one is never too old to live out one’s dreams. My dream of 40 years has finally come true when I was awarded Protea Colours and will represent South Africa in the 2023 World Triathlon Multisport Championships, which will take place in May in Ibiza, Spain.
I will participate in the biathlon. As someone who has been an active member of the Middelburg Marathon Club for over 30 years, as well as being one of the founding members of the Middelburg Cycling Club, I had to work with dedication to acquire Protea Colours. In March this year, I completed my 40th Iron Man. The only South African to finish all the Iron Man events. I’ve been overseas twice to take part in multi-disciplinary sports, but never got my Protea Colours, so to qualify for the world championships is definitely a very lifelong dream come true. When I did my first Iron Man, I nearly finished last. I can still remember telling everyone around me that one day I was going to finish in the Top 10. People laughed at me. But I didn’t feel sorry for myself or give up, I kept working. Even if you are last today, you can come first tomorrow. The Lord has given you talents, work on them and use them to make a difference. But for me, it’s just as much about sportsmanship. One cannot achieve success without the support of a community. Your attitude and how you treat others also contribute. One must be humble and motivate each other. Sport makes you positive and is a good escape from the negative parts of life. I couldn’t do it without support, and the Middelburg Marathon Club and Middelburg Cycling Club are like a family. I am very grateful for that! The only obstacle between me and making my dream a reality is funding.”