OTT Voucher is a payment system that is both safe and convenient. It enables residents of South Africa to access the online world and conduct business using cash as their preferred means of payment. Millions of people all over the country who prefer to handle their financial dealings with cash can now access the digital economy without being required to use traditional online payment methods. This is a huge step forward for the financial independence movement. You also get a second chance to use your OTT Voucher. Once you have redeemed your voucher, you can use the PIN to enter competitions on Second Chance. This is a great way to be rewarded just for using OTT. There are a number of amazing prizes including earphones, headphones and even a powerbank. An OTT Voucher can be purchased in South Africa at any one of the 150,000 participating retail shops that sell airtime throughout the country. These outlets range from huge retail chain stores to the local Soaza store in the community in which you live. Now, you can also purchase an OTT Voucher at Sasol. This article takes you through the process of obtaining an OTT Voucher at any one of the thousands of Sasol outlets located across South Africa. Sasol employs 31,270 people in 32 countries to draw on their collective expertise across a wide range of chemical and energy-related fields. Sasol generates several high-value product streams. This comes as a result of its extensive research and commercialisation of relevant technologies, as well as the global construction and operation of related facilities. Their product streams include low-carbon power, liquid fuels, and chemicals. Sasol is one of the largest investors in capital projects, skills development, and technological R&D in South Africa, where it was formed in 1950. The corporation is listed on both the New York Stock Exchange in the United States and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in South Africa. Sasol’s superior site location is reflected in the fact that each of its 294 gas stations sees an average of 4,221 customers per month. So, everywhere around South Africa, you’ll find Sasol Garages where locals may go to buy an OTT Voucher. Go to your closest Sasol garage that also has a Sasol retail business outlet. Ask your merchant for an OTT Voucher. Then, provide the amount of cash equivalent that you would like to create a voucher for. You will get an OTT Voucher slip that has a unique voucher code on it. You can use that code to deposit into any online betting account you like. OTT Voucher is a safe and simple way for South Africans who like to use cash for online transactions to do so. Millions of South Africans who prefer cash over other payment options can now  participate in the online economy with OTT Voucher. These vouchers can be purchased in South Africa from any of the more than 96,000 retail shops selling airtime. These stores include both national chains and smaller operations serving your local community. Now, OTT Vouchers can be purchased at any Sasol Garage store in South Africa, making it even more convenient to access the online economy using cash.