The DA extends heartfelt condolences to the families of more than ten people who have lost their lives due to flooding in Mpumalanga. Several departments and their respective political heads have conducted oversight visits in some of these areas. The office of premier, Refilwe Mtshweni-Tsipane, has indicated that these assessments are conducted with the aim of implementing short and long term interventions. The premier also stated that the violation of spatial laws and the poor infrastructure are some of the factors that have contributed to these floods. “The DA finds it bizarre that some senior officials who were supposed to make sure that these by laws are enforced and infrastructure is looked after and maintained are part of these assessments, yet they will not be held accountable. “The premier went on to reveal that lack of storm water drainages lead to overflowing of water above the bridges. This is admitting to failure and a result of poor governance. “We expect the premier and her relevant cabinet MEC’s to urgently formulate and implement an action plan on how roads and infrastructure will be restored. “All these ANC political heads frequenting areas that are flooded with blue light brigades will not help the cause. The fact that businesses have shut, schools have been closed and health care facilities being closed should send a strong message to the government. “Unfortunately these PR exercises that residents are subject to will not restore infrastructure. Our government should take responsibility and acknowledge that they are partially responsible for this. “Furthermore, the premier’s silence on schools that have been completely shut down due to floods is alarming. We have established that Nkukungwana Primary School, Hluvukani Primary School and Xanthia High School in Bushbuckridge have closed down. “Roads leading to these schools have collapsed while infrastructure has been damaged at Hluvukani primary. The DA calls on the premier and the Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport to prioritize damaged roads in Bushbuckridge to make sure that learners return to schools. “We will closely monitor the government’s work in restoring infrastructure and make sure that things are done by the book when this process gets underway. These floods have exposed how poor our infrastructure is. We call on residents to remain vigilant at all times as more rain is expected.”