This is the way Judge Phillip Levinsohn, Chair of the Press Council of South Africa, who died suddenly this week is remembered by his Press Council colleagues. Judge Levinsohn (83) served as PCSA chair for over a decade after his retirement in 2010. Prior to that he served for nearly 20 years as Judge of the KwaZulu-Natal High Court, the last few years as Deputy Judge President. He was also the longest-serving judge moderator of the Board of Examiners, for new advocates and the only judge to have been invited to continue as a judge moderator after his retirement. Press Council Executive Director Latiefa Mobara remembered Judge Levinsohn as “a gentle, caring man who was a fierce defender of media freedom and a passionate believer in fair media coverage as espoused by the Press Code”. She said: “He will be sorely missed by all of us who knew him.” Deputy Chair of the PCSA, Ms Amina Frense, said: “Judge Levinson was a friend and a mentor, whose experience and intellect were much admired by everyone on the Press Council. He contributed immensely to the highly reputable organisation we are today. We have lost a giant, a true human rights champion who lived by the letter and spirit of a free and more equitable society.” Chair of the PCSA Appeals Panel Judge Bernard Ngoepe said: “The late Judge Levinsohn was a distinguished and highly respected Judge. He served with distinction for many years as a Judge of the KwaZulu-Natal High Court and also as its Deputy Judge President. Prior to becoming a judge, Judge Levinsohn had a sterling career as an advocate in that province, leading to his appointment as Senior Counsel.” Justice Yvonne Mokgoro, Chair of the Press Council’s Appointments Panel, said: “Judge Levinsohn was an esteemed and highly respected colleague. As the Press Council’s chair, he oversaw the establishment of an effective and efficient co-regulatory structure that assists the public with complaints against print and online media and was a committed champion of media freedom. He will be sorely missed.”