The campaign will give away 260 trolley libraries equipped with books donated by Oxford University Press (OUP) Southern Africa, representing 11 official South African languages, numeracy books and other learning resources, to deserving primary schools and education NPOs. Kebo Mosweusweu, AVBOB General Manager of Shared Value and Sustainability, indicated that included in 2023 campaign is the availability of reading resources in mother tongue languages. “Experts through various studies have found that teaching in a mother tongue language helps to reduce dropout rates and makes education more accessible and engaging for learners. Equally important, is the need to develop the numeracy skills at the formative ages of children. Through this year’s campaign, we aim to further reinforce our commitment to instilling a love of reading to primary school learners, nationally,” said Mosweusweu. The Progress in International Reading Literacy Study (PIRLS) latest findings show that 78% of Grade 4 learners in South Africa could not read with meaning in any language, because they are not taught basic literacy in the language that they speak at home. This means that only 22% of the country’s 10-year-olds understand what they have read. Hanri Pieterse, Managing Director of Oxford University Press Southern Africa, expands on the importance for children to read in their mother tongue. “A good reader needs a developed written vocabulary to read with meaning. This is why a child must learn how to read in their mother tongue. When they do, they develop this written vocabulary more easily as the words they read match the words they hear and speak”. Oxford University Press Southern Africa is South Africa’s leading literacy publisher and has donated 130 000 books in all 11 official languages for this campaign. In 2022, 180 trolley libraries were given to the winning recipients and this year (2023) that number has increased by 80 to 260 trolley libraries. The trolley libraries are sturdy structures, fitted with wheels, used to store the books which are being manufactured by AVBOB Industries in Bloemfontein. Last year, each trolley library was equipped with 430 books whereas in 2023, each trolley will be delivered with 500 books. Each AVBOB Road to Literacy trolley library has a value of R50 000. The total investment value for 2023 competition is R13 million, which is an increase from R10 million in 2022. How to nominate a school? The handover of the trolley libraries to the winners will be facilitated by AVBOB local offices in partnership with OUP and representatives from the winning schools / NPOs. Traditionally, information literacy has been the domain of the school librarian. Only 16.82 % of South African schools have a stocked library. With so few school libraries and no official position in schools for a qualified school librarian, the onus for teaching information literacy thus rests on the teacher. Traditionally, information literacy has been the domain of the school librarian. Only 16.82 % of South African schools have a stocked library. With so few school libraries and no official position in schools for a qualified school librarian, the onus for teaching information literacy thus rests on the teachers. Timeline: 